---
title: "Shock Cooling Emission in Extended Material Revisited"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2009-10-01-paper-title-number-1
excerpt: 'Stripped-envelope supernovae (SESNe) are a subclass of core-collapse supernovae that are deficient in hydrogen (SN IIb, SN Ib) and possibly helium (SN Ic) in their spectra. Their progenitors are likely stripped of this material through a combination of stellar winds and interactions with a close binary companion, but the exact ejecta mass range covered by each subtype and how it relates to the zero-age main-sequence progenitor mass is still unclear. Using a combination of semianalytic modeling and numerical simulations, we discuss how the properties of SESN progenitors can be constrained through different phases of the bolometric light curve. We find that the light-curve rise time is strongly impacted by the strength of radioactive nickel mixing and treatment of helium recombination. These can vary between events and are often not accounted for in simpler modeling approaches, leading to large uncertainties in ejecta masses inferred from the rise. Motivated by this, we focus on the late-time slope, which is determined by gamma-ray leakage. We calibrate the relationship between ejecta mass, explosion energy, and gamma-ray escape time T0 using a suite of numerical models. Application of the fitting function we provide to bolometric light curves of SESNe should result in ejecta masses with approximately 20% uncertainty. With large samples of SESNe coming from current and upcoming surveys, our methods can be utilized to better understand the diversity and origin of the progenitor stars.'
date: 2021-19-03
venue: 'The Astrophysical Journal'
paperurl: 'https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/abe2b1'
citation: 'Piro A. L., Haynie A. Yao Y. (2021). &quot;Shock Cooling Emission in Extended Material Revisited.&quot; <i>The Astrophysical Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font.
