---
title: "Shock Breakout in Dense Circumstellar Material with Application to PS1-13arp"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-Shock-Breakout
excerpt: 'Shock breakout (SBO), the first expected electromagnetic signature of a supernova (SN), can be an important probe of the progenitors of these explosions. Unfortunately, SBO is difficult to capture with current surveys due to its brief timescale (≲1 hr). However, SBO may be lengthened when dense circumstellar material (CSM) is present. Indeed, recent photometric modeling studies of SNe, as well as early spectroscopy, suggest that such dense CSM may be present more often than previously expected. If true, this should also affect the features of SBO. We present an exploration of the impact of such CSM interaction on the SBO width and luminosity using both analytic and numerical modeling, where we parameterize the CSM as a steady-state wind. We then compare this modeling to PS1-13arp, an SN that showed an early UV excess that has been argued to be SBO in dense CSM. We find PS1-13arp is well fit with a wind of mass ∼0.08 M⊙ and radius ∼1900 R⊙, parameters which are similar to, if not slightly less massive than, what have been inferred for Type II SNe using photometric modeling. This similarity suggests that future SBO observations of SNe II may be easier to obtain than previously appreciated.'
date: 2021-04-15
venue: 'The Astrophysical Journal'
paperurl: 'https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/abe938'
citation: 'Haynie A., Piro A.L. (2021). &quot;Shock Breakout in Dense Circumstellar Material with Application to PS1-13arp.&quot; <i>The Astrophysical Journal</i>. 1(2).'
---

The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font.
