---
title: "Effects of narrative-persuasive frames on Twitter regarding blood donation: pride versus empathy and people versus numbers"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-03-03-Narrative-Twitter
excerpt: 'This study analyzes the effectiveness of different frames of a persuasive narrative in the format of a Twitter thread to increase blood donation. An experimental study with a 2 (emotional appeal: empathy awakened by a recipient protagonist vs. pride experienced by a donor protagonist ) x 2 (beneficiary of the donation: identifiable victim vs. generic beneficiary) between-subject design was conducted among 600 participants. Results showed the effectiveness of the emphatic appeal, which induces greater identification among participants. This outcome in turn increases the donation intention. On the contrary, no evidence was found that the use of an identifiable beneficiary in the donation appeal had any effect.'
date: 2022-03-03
venue: 'Profesional de la Información'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.3145/epi.2022.jul.15'
citation: 'Durántez-Stolle, P., Martínez-Sanz, R., & Rodríguez-de-Dios, I. (2022). Effects of narrative-persuasive frames on Twitter regarding blood donation: pride versus empathy and people versus numbers. Profesional de la Información, 31(4).'
---
This study analyzes the effectiveness of different frames of a persuasive narrative in the format of a Twitter thread to increase blood donation. An experimental study with a 2 (emotional appeal: empathy awakened by a recipient protagonist vs. pride experienced by a donor protagonist ) x 2 (beneficiary of the donation: identifiable victim vs. generic beneficiary) between-subject design was conducted among 600 participants. Results showed the effectiveness of the emphatic appeal, which induces greater identification among participants. This outcome in turn increases the donation intention. On the contrary, no evidence was found that the use of an identifiable beneficiary in the donation appeal had any effect.

[Download paper here](https://doi.org/10.3145/epi.2022.jul.15)

Recommended citation: Durántez-Stolle, P., Martínez-Sanz, R., & Rodríguez-de-Dios, I. (2022). Effects of narrative-persuasive frames on Twitter regarding blood donation: pride versus empathy and people versus numbers. <i>Profesional de la Información</i>, 31(4). https://doi.org/10.3145/epi.2022.jul.15
